#labels Featured,Phase-Support
= General =

=== What is Hawkscope? ===
It's an application that resides in your system tray and allows you to browse your hard drive and open anything within seconds.

=== Is it free? ===
Absolutely, it's free and open source.

=== How can I join the development? ===
 * Post issues in [http://code.google.com/p/hawkscope/issues/list Issue Tracker] to request features or bug fixes
 * Check out the source code
 * Make patches or contributions and post them to the [http://code.google.com/p/hawkscope/issues/list Issue Tracker] or send by email to tomas.varaneckas@gmail.com.

=== Will the upgrade from version X to Y break my old settings in .hawkscope.properties? ===
No, it will not. New properties are merged.

=== What are the Network Proxy settings for? ===
It's for checking for updates while being behind a corporate secure proxy.

-----
= Windows =

=== I'm getting a "missing msvcr71.dll" warning when running the Windows executable ===
msvcr71.dll is Microsoft Visual C Runtime 7.1 Dynamic Link Library. This library is not distributed along with Hawkscope windows executable, as most Windows users have it. One way to remove this warning is to You can [http://www.dll-files.com/dllindex/dll-files.shtml?msvcr71 download msvcr71.dll] and drop it to your C:\Windows\System32 folder.

=== Where's the Windows 64-bit version? ===
32-bit version should run fine, so I did not install 64-bit Windows just to make a build. If you can provide a 64-bit Windows build, please do.

=== How did you make Windows .exe from a JAR file? And the Installer? ===
With [http://jsmooth.sourceforge.net/ JSmooth] and [http://nsis.sourceforge.net NSIS].

=== How to add folders like "C:\Program Files" to quick access list? ===
Example .hawkscope.properties:
{{{
display.floppy = 0
gui.implementation = SWT
quick.access.list = ${user.home};C:/Program\ Files
display.hidden = 0
}}}

=== How to add network shares to quick access list? ===
First map the network share to Windows drive (right click My Computer -> Map Network Drive), i.e.: S:. The drive will be automatically displayed in Hawkscope main menu. You can add the drive's sub-folders to quick.access.list in the regular way (i.e.: S:/sub/folder)

-----
= Linux =

=== I've made Hawkscope autostart in my Gnome sessions preference, but it says system tray is not supported ===
Please read the UsingHawkscope carefully. Due to Java Bug: [http://bugs.sun.com/bugdatabase/view_bug.do?bug_id=6438179] you have to add -delay 15000 (starts application 15 seconds later, so system tray loads first).

=== How to add network shares to quick access list? ===
Mount them first, then add in regular way (/mnt/share/name)

=== Hawkscope sucks, how to remove it? ===
{{{
dpkg -r hawkscope
#to remove configuration
rm ~/.hawkscope.properties
}}}
-----
= Mac OS X =

=== Where's the Mac OS X version? ===
In the Downloads!

=== How do I start Hawkscope on boot? ===
Right click Hawkscope dock item and then select "Open at Login". Or go to System Preferences > Accounts > Login Items and add Hawkscope there manually.

=== Why can't I quit Hawkscope by closing Dock icon? It also stops OS X from logging off or shutting down. ===
A bug. Please exit Hawkscope manually via Tray icon on top. If you happened to quit it via Dock or can't shutdown, just Force Quit it by holding alt while right clicking the dock icon.