#labels Phase-Deploy,Featured
= About this section =
If you are looking for a simple Help, go [Help here]. This section is more of a "Hacking Hawkscope".

= Running the jar =

You have to [BuildingHawkscope build] it first.

If you have your [http://java.sun.com/javase/downloads/index.jsp Java Runtime Environment] installed correctly, double click hawkscope.jar to run it.

Otherwise you can run it from command line:
{{{
java -jar hawkscope.jar
}}} 

= Running Hawkscope on Startup =

== Windows ==
Hawkscope is automatically added to your Start Menu -> Programs -> Startup folder during setup. If you don't want it to run on Windows startup, remove the shortcut.

== Linux (Gnome) ==
Go to System -> Preferences -> Sessions
Add new autostart item with command:
{{{
hawkscope -delay 5000
}}}
Ubuntu users may look here: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AddingProgramToSessionStartup].
Startup delay is required due to Java Bug [http://bugs.sun.com/bugdatabase/view_bug.do?bug_id=6438179 #6438179]

== Mac OS X ==
Right click Hawkscope dock item and then select "Open at Login". Or go to System Preferences > Accounts > Login Items and add Hawkscope there manually.


= Configuration =

Hawkscope writes it's own configuration file `.hawkscope.properties` in user home folder.

Operating Systems have different user home folder:
  * Windows XP: `C:\Documents and Settings\username\`
  * Windows Vista: `C:\Users\username\`
  * Linux: `/home/username`
  * Mac: `/Users/username`

You can edit this file with plain text editor to manually configure several options. As of 0.4.0 Hawkscope has a configuration window, you should only edit `.hawkscope.properties` to add Quick Acess path hacks:
|| Property || Title || Description || 
|| quick.access.list || Quick Access List || Adds custom entries to quick access list. Entries separated with ";". It can either be a full path, a java property, like ${user.home} (default) or environmental variable like ${$JAVA_HOME}.||

Example .hawkscope.properties path hack:
{{{
quick.access.list = ${user.home};${user.home}/Development;/mnt/myserv;${$JAVA_HOME}
}}}
   
    